# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-09-11

## https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/98


**Attendees:**  Ines Akrap (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tim Frick (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jen Strickland, Andrea Davanzo, Andrew Wright, Nick Lewis, Anne Faubry, Crystal Preston-Watson, Denis DiDier, Rose Newell, Siddesh Waggle, Eloisa Guerrero


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/CIaQCF6cKxoFRBvB7uiNnnPT9CmisyBkHB_nx6cQAyhfWJur-gGnJVvIUFl7_3qH.GrrUT794TZDVoyFB
Passcode: ?quY6!Z9 


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - **Alex:** [Overlapping guidelines/SC issue](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/5) has a list to kickstart!

   - Please take a look, and comment on the issue.

   - Tim: there is a lot of overlap in business & product group and resolving this will be a great progress. How we organize the guidelines is still an issue. We will soon do a discussion/workshop to address this. Will be communicated soon.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** Deadline Week! I’ll be doing final checks, getting the WSG ready for this next stage and then publishing the [release notes](http://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/releases) for Q3.

   - After getting all the editorial form Rose, Alex went through all the various W3C documents to ensure we are aligned with other documents, teams, topics and rules. A lot of this will be relevant for the horizontal review but he started the process and integrated some of this into the draft for the new release.

   - Tim: Any help that any of us can provide for Alex in the next 4 days?

   - Alex: won’t be necessary. Many people already contributed, helped and we are in a good place for publication.

   - Tzviya: if you haven't read through the guidelines in a while, please do. The introduction changed a lot. You can focus on “your area” if you have no time for all. Any feedback is very much appreciated. Link to review: <https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/>

   - Go ahead with API? Rip out impact and metrics ratings?

   - Alex: currently developing a new API, very simple piece of JS, will be placed alongside the resources and measurability link. Will indicate guidelines’ success criteria. It will request from a JSON file (external, maintained by measurement TF), and will request scoring. Will automate scores so it updates if it changes. It ill be more flexible and easy to implement changes. We have very crude measurements at the moment for impact and effort. Same for GRI mapping. Do we remove any of this measurement information now or once the new system is active? It is not very accurate so it has to go, but now or later?

   - Tim: Is there already a prototype to check? Alex: Not yet

   - Tzviya: In the metrics TF we discussed this information (GRI, impact/effort), and the issue was that there is no explanation where it comes from. Anne, what do you think about this new approach? Do we still have enough relationships with GRI? (Anne missing context and info to answer)

   - Alex: eventual hope is that once measureability TF has document with how they came up with scoring, relationship with GRI will be more clear

   - Tim: It makes sense if it is well explained. Relationship needs to be clear

   - Alex: In the intro under measurement is explained, there will be links to those explanations once the new system is in place. Since measurability TF is working on a separate schedule, and on top of everything and measurement as a topic changes faster than the rest, that is why extracting it and keeping it separate is beneficial

     - WSG Impact JSON API documentation: <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wk5270ryJuTiu-47CBCfNMa2jnyRZP67/view>

   - Do we keep Impact/effort?

   - Tzviya: people could ask where it comes from, but we can’t pull the metrics completely out of it.

   - Tim: leaning towards pulling it out, Tzviya: we already have consensus from a previous call

   - **Impact/Effort to be pulled out**

   - Metrics update

   - Alex (for Adam, Oli, and Son :)): Adam is working on a few ideas on how to go about measuring the data. Potentially having some threshold based scoring. GRI, for example, some stuff are easy (min 1, max 100) energy and water, we can add them up and build a scoring metric and build to a final score. Some areas will be easier than others. This is just a basic idea from Adam, will be good for him to expand.

   - Tzviya: Metrics call, Tuesday morning in Europe, check Slack if interested to join.

   - Kicking off horizontal review (Tzviya) - what is it? Who volunteers?

     - [Security/Privacy self review](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/): Andrea (Rose, if Andrea needs help)

     - [A11y Questionnaire](https://w3c.github.io/fast/checklist.html): Anne, Jen, Eloisa, Denis D.

     - [i18n self review](https://www.w3.org/International/review-request#selfreview): Rose

     - [TAG Explainer](https://w3ctag.github.io/explainer-explainer/#introduction): We'll get to after the others

Tzviya: after we close this stage of publication (Tzviya presenting it to W3C staff) And we are starting the process of horizontal review, which is very important area in W3C. A11y, privacy and security, i18n and hopefully S12y in the future. Alex 
has already done a lot. First step: getting volunteers with expertise in the area. It a list of questions. There are steps beyond this questionnaires for later.

Andrea: volunteering to check the questionnaires for privacy and security and see if he can help with something.

Tzviya: Rose could be good for i18n. We will need at least a month for this. Once we have this, we need to open a GitHub PRs.

We can’t formally publish anything before we accomplish the horizontal review. It could be 2 months. Self-review i18n is quite easy, since we are not creating an API.

GH issues will be opened on specific horizontal review repo, Tzviya to double check and open.

Anne: can check a11y. How extensive should it be? Where do we put feedback?

Tzviya: We are different from other specs. Most parts can get a simple once over. Mike can also help out with a11y. Hidde and Jen as well. Whoever has time. We are not creating an interface, more of a guidance. Do it with a grain of salt. We probably won’t have privacy issues since there is no interaction with users. Tzviya happy to help. Tzviya to provide where we should add it.

Sid: Is there a JSON checklist available on GitHub?

Tzviya: FAST checklist exists for A11y

Jen: can talk to some contacts. There are checklists but not in JSON. Don’t make

one :P (A11y group has strong ownership feel so not to overstep)

Shooting with this for mid October.

- Coming soon: discussion of document organization

4. **Community + News**

   - Jen: UX TF using Friday meetings for guidelines reviews. Each session goes through a few of the guidelines. Follow channel to see which guidelines are next up

   - Andrea: University of Edinburgh starting a new project, where all software will be implemented following the guidelines. As soon as they start will give us feedback on all the aspects of using WSG on a real project

   - Tzviya: we need to talk on implementation, what it is, how we define it

   - Rose: hopefully to release susty icon project. Are tooling project such as that, non commercial, does that count as implementation or not?

   - Tzviya: not really. Compliant vs implementation: on a WCAG example. When site follows WCAG during implementation it is considered to be WCAG compliant. Lighthouse score, checking for WCAG criteria would be implementation.

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   -

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Timeline: new version between now and Monday, will be live on GH URL

   - Will talk on re-organization between now and mid-October

   - Prep for and execute on TPAC

   - Horizontal review, Nov/Dec to April: implement feedback

   - Not sending to draft/note yet, that goes after the HR
