# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-04-17

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/39

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Shane Herath, Kazuhito Kidachi, Alisa Bonsignore, Jennifer Strickland, Thorsten Jonas, Laurent Devernay Satyagraha, François Burra, James Christie, Sarven Capadisli, Nicola Bonotto, Andrea Davanzo, Denis DIDIER, Chris Adams, Emma Horrell, Francesco Fullone, Rose Newell.

## Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) - consent to record and share

## Questions/comments from the last meeting.
None.

## Community + News:
- Green IO NYC, 5/15-16
- Follow-up on GSF Workshop (Chris)
- New B Corp Standards: (includes web accessibility!) https://www.bcorporation.net/en-us/standards/performance-requirements/
 
## [Open issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues):

- **Alex:** I’ll be working to implement the great issues we’ve had so far once the tagging system goes live, keep up the good work!
- **Alex:** Filtering Preview (via tags) - Defaults?
   - Filtering works in full-document view, you can filter by category, more than one works, it doesn’t interfere with multi-page or ReSpec, only activates when called.
- **Rose:** Editorial progress update
   - As before, working on improving the readability of the document. Will be working on each chapter's content.

## Major sections (Blockers & Updates)

- UX - Getting more people onboard, challenges with getting started (format choice).
- WebDev - Also need more contributors but doing well.
- Infrastructure - None.
- Business - None.
- Measurability - Working towards how to calculate testability.

## TF Breakouts

No W3C members present so no recording or breakouts this time (Sorry!).

## Other discussion/questions:

- Old SustyWeb content (redirect to resolve SEO issue?)
   - Decision to implement redirect, will be actioned with old copies available via GH releases.
