# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-07-17

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/72

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Thorsten Jonas, [Andrew Wright](mailto:awright1979@gmail.com), Rose Newell, Kazuhito Kidachi, Jennifer Strickland, Eloisa Guerrero, Denis DIDIER, Adam Newman, Anne Faubry, Susannah Hill, Ryan Sholin, Francesco Fullone, Crystal Preston-Watson


## Recording:  https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/00fgyZJ6K76sScIyHSiSW_-xA2wxpXQQeB2NEOk7enFSJerTq1Pp2Pk25YZpobAp.FRA3v7bVgDJ94cbj
Passcode: 7.nnN$%a 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/), all gave permission to record and distribute

2. Timeline: we are 9 months into a 2-year charter
   - There is not as much time as it might seem. We have about 9 months if we are to publish for the Earth Day 2026 (Wed, 22 Apr 2026) guideline. We have focused this agenda on getting this more widely published. We want to need this to get reviewed by horizontal groups and AC.

3. Prioritization across the specification (carbon-impact based) (Łukasz and Adam) (30 min)

   - Adam Newman - effort to define what the metrics task force was going to deliver. There is compatibility with the guidelines. One approach is the Google Lighthouse scoring vs the other where CO2 is measured directly. Software Carbon Intensity (SCI) is a complement ([tree shaking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_shaking)). Having the guidelines written as true/false will lead to tooling would surface a Lighthouse based extension for sustainability. 

   - Next steps: Look through every SC to evaluate specifically how it would be machine testable. Bring it to a boolean value for each SC. This would be a baseline, “are you doing some things right”.

   - See [Fershad's comments on Slack](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C02JETQAQG4/p1752758768160629)

   - Jennifer S noted that not everything in WCAG can be machine testable, just as with web performance and accessibility some require subjectivity.

   - Tzviya: how do we prioritize? If we are saying that manual testing will determine carbon intensity, and intensity will organically lead to which SCs are highest priority, that’s fine. Let’s decide if this is the route we want to take.

   - Thorsten Jonas: We are about to lose some elements because not all SC will be able to be machine testable. The ones that are machine-testable will be the easiest ones. We should be able to bring in others.

   - Jen Strickland: We do what we can to make these standards more clear. Not every organization is going to be able to think about implementing all of these guidelines. We need to be able to make the case for those which constrain us. We are all conjoined in the effort.

   - Alex Dawson: Metrics data done outside of the WSG this could be pulled back into the specification to be able to draw alignment. It can come up with some kind of scoring system.

   - Mike Gifford; Tools like Google Lighthouse (using Axe) leverage a set of rules which test for only a part of a specific WCAG SC.

   - Anne Faubry: How can we assess the carbon intensity of a SC. How do we evaluate, depending on the type of the website.

   - Adam Newman: We do not have perfect data, but we have a simple formula for evaluating. (Only way to determine CO2: embodied emissions, location of the equipment and the energy draw). Create a model for evaluating end-to-end usage is difficult to map.

   - Tzviya: WSG & Green Software Foundation are working on an MOU so that the IG has input into Software Carbon Intensity (SCI) for Web

   - Adam: Job of the guidelines is to be very specific. We can then assess if they have been done or not. Alternatively, true/false or alternative.

   - Jen Strickland: We shouldn’t prioritize those issues that are machine-testable over those which require human evaluation.

   - Jen Strickland: still want “trust” to be a criteria for the human-testable. A few examples:

     - In Intelligence community data analysis, there are individuals whose expertise renders their analysis to be more trustworthy, so that is noted in reporting.

     - In the CredWeb / Authentic Web, there is discussion around trustworthiness of domain or content. This also applies to the information literacy topic and is documented in myriad places.

     - In the accessibility guidelines, we started an idea called “protocols” that is now called “assertions” that shows the provenance of how a claim of meeting SC was derived, using a framework or other model that itemizes the testing steps and results.

     - So, I wonder if that could lend more credibility to human-testable, and enable us to better prioritize some human-testable SC, too.

4. Prioritization by Low-hanging fruit - is it a good idea? What hangs low to be discussed by each group (30 min)

   - Tzviya: is prioritization by low-hanging fruit the best approach? “Prove to me” approaches often rely on an automated tool to validate the request. It is documentable, and often provides more organizational trust. what is the easiest thing to do? what's a quick win?

   - Tim: What should I do first? How do we want to approach this.

   - Adam: Starting at procurement, introducing a different type of information. Moving into requirements gathering and requirements. These should all map to an interactive project development process.

   - Tim: Outputs vs outcomes. Often there un-intended consequences to box-ticking.

   - Tzviya: New vs old. Quick wins to nudge this into the workflow.

   - Anne Faubry - quick wins are important, but should be a small amount of good practices. Few very high impact measures, more than having 20-30 best practices with wins. Quick wins should be less than ⅓ but with high impact.

   - Jen Strickland: Explain criteria. Plain language. Uses fewer images. Personal vs cultural high level of impact.

   - Tim: The current impact level needs to be clarified.

   - Alex Dawson: The A, AA, AAA should be avoided as the scoring mechanism, they do what they need to do but don’t do anything more. Going with something that is graded, they will go with the minimum.

   - Adam: Prioritization - linking these guidelines to the steps in the chain. Some tool will be skipped, based on the timeline of the project. We have to get rid of what choices have already been made.

   - Tim: Where are there opportunities to revisit the decisions that have already been made? There may be opportunities to make a better choice in the project lifecycle.

   - Tzviya: It seems like we are talking both about testing the organization/developer and the content/platform. From a regulatory perspective, what matters is the website & platform and what the user sees.

5. Break (15 min)

6. Proposals for new organization methods (GOLD - Chris) (TRIM - Alex) (30 min)

   - Alex's [slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Fsw38rJ0IgF_Vhln6IrSG5YmO6zWk9Fu/view?usp=sharing)

   - Alex Dawson: (Presenting slideshow linked above) GOLD & TRIM abbreviations/acronyms for WSG Organization Methods. Like the WCAG’s POUR principles (Perceivable, Operable, Understandable, Robust), it gives a good gist of what their guidelines are about. Should we have a nice simple acronym of our own that sums up the work of Web Sustainability Guidelines?

   - Chris Adams came up with an acronym: GOLD. (Green, Open, Lean, Distributed)

     - Green as in green energy and material inputs (running and making computers)

     - Open as in open data, open source, transparency

     - Lean, referring to carbon emissions

     - Distributed, to move work to avoid carbon emissions

   - Alex’s acronym: TRIM (Transparent, Resilient, Inclusive, Minimal)

     - Transparent: Information is presented/reported in a transparent manner

     - Resilient: Technologies are progressively enhanced and functions across different devices, software, environment conditions

     - Inclusive: Accessibility, should not discriminate or encourage discrimination; content must abide by compliance/regulatory requirements

     - Minimal: Keep things as optimal as possible, products & services from creation to consumption created and presented in subtle, low impact ways as much as possible to reduce impacts of resources and wastes

   - Susannah: What is the acronym describing?

   - Tzviya: WCAG is divided into POUR sections. Part of the discussion today is if/how we use this

   - Jen: I want to understand the why. UX talks about how indigestible the UX criteria are, and could benefit from POUR. Is this a marketing sort of acronym we’re thinking of?

   - Tzviya: We talk a lot about WCAG, and one of my goals is to learn from their mistakes. POUR is a fantastic concept, but doesn’t always work out. If we do choose one of these principles, we can use them in multiple ways such as an organisational principle that doesn’t necessarily reorganise the document around these principles, or use it as tagging, or marketing. Do we want to go forward with this? Do we want to reorganise the document? There’s a lot of overlap, what do we want to do with this?

   - Tim: I’m a fan of anything that makes wayfinding easy for people.

   - Alex: Even if we choose not to use the acronym in documents, we can still use it as a mnemonic to easily remember and get the gist of it to say “this is the goal of this document/these guidelines” and as a guiding force to say what we’re attempting to do. People can easily take it away from what underlies the document.

   - Susannah: Could we review the top-line goals that we expressed so far? Would that help?

     - Somewhere in our documentation there is an expression of our overall objectives/goals:

       - <https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/#principles>

     - Clean, efficient, open, honest, regenerative, resilient

   - Tim: It’s six years old from the Web Sustainability Manifesto, we’ll need to update them and see what’s missing from GOLD & TRIM acronyms to be inclusive of those six principles. I’d still stand by those principles, if there’s a way to dovetail them to revise the guiding principles to meet whatever acronym we choose.

   - Thorsten: I love all the acronyms, I am missing a bit on the process that project teams are using to build the websites. We have things that need to be done before starting design or development, and where should we put these criteria in the workflow? If I start a project in scratch, there is an order of how to do things and it is missing where these guidelines come in as a base for making the designs according to the guidelines. How do we bring this order into the guidelines and we are missing in POUR/GOLD/TRIM.

   - Tim: Everyone’s process is different, so how do you acknowledge that people’s processes are flexible/different. Acknowledgement needs to be made that we are not trying to fit everything, and it should be flexible enough to work for as many things as possible.

   - Tzviya: Every item in this doc must be able to stand alone. Any introductory section might be nice, but there are few people who actually read a spec top to bottom. I agree w/ Susannah’s suggestion to look at that principles section, and that would be where we add TRIM or GOLD, preferably TRIM (IMO). If we plan to totally reorganize the document, we need to make the decision in the next week or end of July which acronym to use. Add explanation of TRIM and even if we end up not using GOLD/TRIM, we should take a look at those terms that we already have in the principles section, to figure out how to incorporate to sort our success criteria.

   - Jen: Reviewing the principles, we don’t really clarify what the WSG’s principles are, this is the place for it. There’s a link to the Web Sustainability Manifesto and the items listed here are there. I do think for WSG, we could provide a list like W3C for its principles to clarify what the mission of the WSG could be more useful.

   - Tzviya: Another topic for another day, we can use these as organizing principles for sustainability horizontal review. We have work to do on that principles section and tag within the other existing SC.

   - Tim: If you have thoughts about these acronyms and principles, feel free to add to GitHub to continue discussion.

7. UX: deadline 2 weeks - how can we help UX catch up? (20 min)

   - Tim: UX group’s perspective, what is left to do from now until end of the month.

   - Jen: For the July 31st deadline, we’ll delay by a couple of extra days, we’re focused on copyediting and the bulk of that responsibility has fallen to Rose Newell, there is no compensation or crediting and has been doing this on her own time. Leadership issues, but we have more structure built in now, but would be great if that is clearly understood across this entire effort. Some issues with people who were historically the leads are expected to provide the structure. We need that organisational structure to get people to join the UX effort. Make sure our processes include people.

   - Tim: A bunch of issues there, we have limited time today but can we focus on what is needed to get Jen to July 31st, if that’s copyediting, there are folks in here to help with that.

   - Jen: Worked that out, I’m one of the copyeditors, while Rose is on holiday. She will help when she comes back from holiday. I’d like to see others, especially those involved in the initial go to have the intent of the original clarified.

   - Rose: Technically away. It’s not necessarily clear, not at all linguistic, and there's a lot of QAing and it takes a lot of thinking and realising what people are trying to say, and so there’s a lot in the editing process going on. I could do editing by 31st but most likely means having to give up 3 days of holiday or I can work on it when I get back but would push it by a couple of days. If anyone has opportunity to help, we also need to talk about global changes. Should sort that out sooner rather than later to avoid having to edit.

   - Tzviya: We talked about in the chair’s call that it would be helpful to get the edits on the existing content done and submitted and there are a lot of proposals for new content, but we need to focus on the existing content. Let’s hold off on new material, we’ll talk about that later.

   - Jen: Plan right now is to finish up the copyediting of current material so that we can get those milestones met. Thorston wanted to start on new content right away, asking folks to complete their review of the current guidelines in the spreadsheet Thorsten set up. There’s a topics folder to brain dump,don’t do it in Slack. The semantics of the document is broken as far as accessibility. Not machine testable and resources links should not be in headings. Small lists just beneath the heading, style visually but not look like a list, and use proper aria. Things aren’t clear, grammar is broken, spelling errors, etc. Anne and Thurston and Ines are the ones working on V1.

   - Alex: If there’s an issue re: structure with machine testable resources, that’s something that I can do a global change on, can push that through to fix straight away.

   - Rose: We are focusing on existing content with edits between me and Jen, but there are some ambiguities, it’s the nature of UX. Not a criticism, but perhaps it would help to have translator’s notes to help people understand things, add comments on what it is referring to, need to clarify context. If people want to add clarity it would really help with the editing process.

   - Thorsten: I see the point of the need of editing of existing content but we also have a bunch of things in the UX section that were a good start but need not only editing but rearrangement, merging, getting rid of some things, etc. Might be trying to push more on that, but we’d like to give people more time for feedback until end of the month. This is an important topic, so I’d like to stick to UX guidelines as they are at the moment.

   - Tim: There’s process things we need to go through to get done by July 31st to release our next version.

   - Jen: In the coming months, do collaboration towards making guidelines better. If you have time to do a copy pass and provide clarity or after Rose and I do our thing, if you are able to answer questions we asked in the document, we could use the help.

   - Tzviya: We’re concerned that the rest of document is moving forward and need to get this out for further review. Need to get point to share this with people outside of the group. If you can get to point where you’re not working in those kinds of environments and can work in a way that people outside of this group can be familiar with what you’re doing, we’re pushing for publishing the document or get to an editor’s draft, and it’s ok to leave some parts to say “this is missing” or “to come”.

8. Future work mode (GitHub and do we want to continue TFs?).

   - Alex: will be creating a selection of GitHub issues from comments and input. When issue is dealt with, it can be checked off and submitted as pull request. Once it is document ready it goes to main spec

   - Tzviya: can do a quick walkthrough of basic GitHub actions such as opening a pull request, reviews, editing, etc. Once editorial milestone is achieved, we should move to working on Github directly for sake of transparency 

   - Jen and Alex discussing how to handle UX editorial work (adding to Github)

   - Alex offering video tutorial for Github walkthrough -> will discuss thing offline

   - Tzviya on how attribution works as a part of W3C: usually 1-2 editors listed at the beginning and everyone else added as contributors at the end. Editor role is assign to someone who has done it all: managing editor.

   - Tim: how do we adapt to people being volunteers and changing their contribution levels

   - Tzviya: If Alex ever stepped down, we could list him as previous editor to acknowledge he made so much work beforehand. We want to give credit to everyone that did their fair share. There is a track of all contribution, both in Github in case of pull requests and internal tracking.

   - Tim: as we move forward, we can re-shuffle the document to meet W3C criteria. We are still struggling to get everything

   - Jen: is the work Rose is doing similar to the editor role? Burnout can happen easily and it is important for everyone to set boundaries. Can we find a way to acknowledge the amount of work and effort Rose did?

   - Alex: Most of the specs only list editors at the top with the link to the acknowledgment section where the Authors should be listed

   - Tzviya: To task force or not to task force?

   - Jen: UX needs to persist. Ines is available again to help with logistics of the meeting, that was very useful before

   - Metrics: doesn’t matter if decisions are made by TF or by larger group

   - Prod/Biz dev: Some task forces have very low availability

   - Thorsten/Tim: need to discuss cross TF which guidelines belong where

   - WebDev/Infra: is there need to meet as a TF?

   - Alex: no more activity from WebDev => they are probably happy with their current status

   - 3 task forces to keep going: UX, Biz/Prod, Metrics

   - Tzviya: continue measurement conversation with Oli and Lukasz

TPAC: registrations open. It is in Japan in case you are interested joining. We will have our session on Thursday. Unconference-style breakouts are on Wednesday. In case of any questions and issues, feel free to contact Tzviya. <https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/registration.html>

If you read so far: **THANK YOU for all of your contributions you are doing as a volunteer and pushing this topic forward. Every single contribution is very much appreciated.**
