# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-09-04

## https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/94

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Tim Frick (Chair), Thorsten Jonas, Jen Strickland, Rose Newell, Andrew Wright, James Christie, Chris Adams, Emma Horrell, Sid Wagle, Francesco Fullone, Ryan Sholin


## Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
 https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/iaAC36Wk3O4TMW3BoWuSVUYZA7ZbOBxmTVxgbmQi6YYzUftAnPIkFGxs1Bhe28jN.PPenwwOp1SsPJPw9
Passcode: 33+%w=Wq 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - [TPAC Schedule Ideas](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/93)

   - Tzviya: On TPAC groups meeting we try to cover intersection between groups. Groups we are schedule to meet with are web performance and AGWG, neither are horizontal review groups. We see where we intersect. We modeled our work after WCAG, a lot to learn there, want to go in with tight agenda. We'll probably have 30-min meeting of both groups chairs to plan. Very specific questions: what goes into main document vs techniques and other satellite docs? Or questions about their relationship with regulators. Scoring system could be another interesting topic. Path to regulations.

   - Jen: this group has been great with awareness of A11y. APA is part of horizontal review, Jen is involved, kind and guiding, could be interesting group to talk, especially about maturity models.
     Tzviya: We could have a meeting with APA as well, but could focus on these 2 for now. W3C requires horizontal reviews for all specifications. We pass under that. For some groups it is self review but it can also be general review. Group that does WCAG is not the same one that does horizontal review. What specific questions we want to ask. There are a lot of things about perf in our guidelines and we want feedback on accuracy as well as possible gaps.

     Mike: web perf, check who is responsible for what so we don’t step on each other's toes
     Tim: Sustainability is to prove there is intersectionality between the roles
     Tzviya: We want to make sure to point content from our guidelines to groups that are mainly responsible for that part. In our doc we are trying to be clear so people know what they are testing and what it is applied to.
     Jen: we could create some slides to manage expectations for the meeting, what feedback we want and what not

   - Do we keep the existing GRI content?

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** Please everyone check for bugs ([and raise issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/new)):\
     Our deadline is the 15th for publication!

(broken links, etc.)
Rose: some content was substantially re-written for clarity, please check parts you have done to ensure it was good understanding and original message was not lost

- **Alex:** Editorial update progress report.

  - **Done:** Section Intros, Success Criteria, Benefits, Examples, x8 GH Issues

  - [**Ready**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls)**:** Introduction, Subheadings, Global Fixes, Link Updates.

  - **Todo:** W3C Checks, Rating API, GH Issues.

New PRs are up, check them and give feedback.

Subheadings have new, slimmed down, versions, integrated to each guideline

New introduction: big revamp, please check and give feedback.
Alex doing W3C checks, going through documents and checking if all is according to standards. Also working on new API

Tzviya: is it possible for other people to give feedback in GitHub in this way?
Challenge for Tim personally.
Rose showed one of the PRs on UX meet, and it was very useful, people were not aware of it and it gives nice visual representation

Tzviya shared screen showed how to preview new version in GitHub

Emma: being able to see this visual representation is super helpful

Tzviya showing how to add a comment directly in the GitHub so Alex has it easier

Tzviya: it is hard to review PR with many files. Would be good to stick to just a few files per PR, Alex: sometimes multiple files are there due to sync between changes in the different documents

Alex: Github issue of merge conflicts when everything is split down, 

Rose: splitting too much will be less the case in the future

Alex: can create smaller PRs for W3C clean-up for easier review process

- **Tim:** [**Product & business group meeting**](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82186337586?pwd=0if2VcqmSTMBCLAft6wXkJNYlMzanC.1), Monday Sept 8, 2025, 10am CDT/5pm CEST, 11am ET.

- **Thorsten, Jennifer, Rose**: UX group Meeting, Monday Sept 8, 2025, 4pm CEST, 10 am ET, 9 am CDT

4. **Community + News**

   - Related blog post mentioned in the chat <https://tetralogical.com/blog/2025/09/01/why-inclusive-products-are-green-products/>

   - UK Government buying standards survey and corresponding webinars are publicly accessible - including software and hosting (relevant to the WSGs). [Link to gist showing the coming dates and survey](https://gist.github.com/mrchrisadams/7791ccc68aab5ffad78c568fd463d10c). Anyone can respond, especially if you are in the UK or work with anyone in the UK.

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   -

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Tzviya: **NYC Climate week**, is anyone planning to attend? Is it good to attend? Ryan will be there. It is very decentralized. There are events happening over the city. Climate leaders product playbook has a presentation. Ryan trying to check Google and Scope 3 events. Ping Ryan if planning to come.

   - Jen: UX workshop on Monday, what to expect? Thorsten will build up on the last workshop.Tzviya to help with Zoom meeting (she is magic :)) We keep using the same mural. Prioritize some points that need more discussion 

Rose: <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/106>, discussion on certain terms, solution to define the terms. When reviewing, we could emphasise some terms that may need definition (due to not being native english speaker or less technical). Sid: is everyone understanding Sustainability as a term in the same way. Having the list with definitions could help with this to bring everyone to the same page. Rose: also ensure consistency. 
Tzviya: our first step is to use language that is understandable, however there are some terms that are standard across other W3C documents. Don’t want to use “variable” since it is used in CSS, for example. We need to think globally, across whole W3C and standards and align with it. 
Alex: W3C has a glossary, it is on to do to check if there are any terms that have different meanings across W3C.
