# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-05-29

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/45

**Attendees:** Tim Frick (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Kazuhito Kidachi, Thorsten Jonas, Jen Strickland, Łukasz Mastalerz, Alisa Bonsignore, Shane Herath, Rose Newell, Nick Lewis, Morgan Murrah, Ryan Sholin, Susannah Hill, Adam Newman

## Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) 
- consent to record and share


1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
   - Susannah Hill: based in CA, US, near SF. Founded Cloud Sustainability Watch.
   - Nick Lewis: based in SW UK. Advocate for digital sustainability for many years. Runs sustainable dev, low-carbon website showcase.

2. Questions/comments from the last meeting.
   - Barreling towards progress for the end of June.

3. Task Force Breakouts
   - Group Feedback (Blockers & Updates)
   - UX: Everyone getting on the same page, scheduling an async meeting. Rose will review before June 30, update and will have agreed upon working method
   - Hosting: assembled todo list, 3 more sections to go through first edits, have open questions, and there’s some legacy language that needs to be updated
   - Metrics: We have a good understanding of tasks to focus on - guideline prioritization based on characteristics of SCs (role, software, user input). There will be a separate task to build UI for this. Second is building baseline and measure. We need to clearly goal of guidelines and metrics TF. We will post in GitHub and ask for feedback. Minimize environmental impact of web (tb defined), and goal for TF: help users achieve greatest progress toward minimizing impact. One of the main goals is to reduce demand for manufacturing and use of hardware, and if everything can be framed in that context, we have something to guide us even in the SCs that are “immeasurable”. This aligns with SCI as well.
   - Product/Biz: this is the section that interfaces with the rest of the world. There are many new resources (Climate leaders v2, B Corp standards), We need to figure out if there is anything new to add.

4. Community + News
   - **WSG Update (Alex):** New [Resources Supplement](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/resources.html) ([PR 67](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/67))
     - WSG links to Resources in the document head (Supplements). - easier to maintain a separate document, useful resource on its own, makes WSG more evergreen
     - Each WSG SC cross-references ([example](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/#external-variables)) to its Resources (URLs) via a “jump to section” feature (next to and works like testability for STAR).
     - WSG now has a new filter category (Standards) based on [relationships](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/#relationships) found in references we currently have in the resources supplement.
     - Some SC’s were lacking evidence, so I researched and added more links.
       **Note:** more on the way, I’ve got a backlog of research & links to verify.

     - [STAR techniques](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/star.html#user-experience-design) are visually aligned to the WSG and grouped by SC.

     - Non-destructive minor copy tweaks that apply globally to the WSG copy have been applied to help improve general readability. (thanks to Rose!)

     - **Benefits:** Easier to maintain/garden links. Resources is a useful doc on its own (for general susty “further reading”). The spec is more evergreen with fewer links to go stale (when we go note/statement). WSG is now 500kb lighter - so more performant on loading!

     - New [Considerations](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/#considerations) section (Accessibility / Privacy / Security) cross-overs
       New filter category (Considerations) matching the above (using tag data).
       New filter category (Categories) based on guideline tags & spreadsheet.

     - A few other bugs and quirks also got squashed.

5. Other discussion/questions
   - Increasing frequency of meetings - we will go to weekly meetings, further discussion at next meeting
   - Virtual "f2f" (extended session) - planning a 2.5 -3 hour virtual meeting in the summer. We’ll share proposed dates in GitHub.
