## Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-06-12 

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/50

**Attendees:** Mike Gifford (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Ines Akrap (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Francesco Fullone, Sarah Zama, Hidde de Vries, Kazuhito Kidachi, Susannah Hill, Ryan Sholin, Łukasz Mastalerz, Jennifer Strickland, Anne Faubry, Katya Dreyer-Oren, Adam Newman, Nick Lewis, Eloisa Guerrero, Andrew Wright, Emma Horell, Thorstens Jonas, Rose Newell


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) - consent to record and share

   - Katya from Salesforce/Heroku is new after meeting some of us at Green/IO

   - Eloisa from Rakuten joined once before

   - Anne chaired the UX group when we were WSG CG, works on French sustainability guidelines ([RGESN](https://en.arcep.fr/publications.html))

2. Questions/comments from the last meeting.

   - Please [vote on availability](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/49) for virtual “F2F” meetings.

     - Tim: Not too dissimilar to these meetings, but they are longer, like 3hrs, in the Summer.

     - Tzviya: we’re thinking one in July and one in August; there are a lot of timeslots in the availability poll, we know not everyone can make it but hope to get a good amount of people to these.

     - Tim: we have an end of month “deadline”…where we get to a pause point and reassess what we’re doing, please wrap up any work before end of June so we can use these meetings + the “F2F” meetings to further refine

     - Alex: I’m working alongside Rose, who works on chapter edits, after that I’ll go through those and figure out what needs more clarification, if needed we’ll take it to the Task Force or spec via PR.

3. Task Force Breakouts

   - Group Feedback (Blockers & Updates)

   - UX: introduced each other a tiny bit, showed where working materials are stored, aligned to document who’s who, working on a more open collaboration meeting time

   - WebDev: Team is working well together and doesn’t foresee problems finishing updates prior to end of June. 

   - Hosting: Ryan and Susannah have been editing. S editing the additional info sections. Ryan creating checklists and tying together with links and looked at machine testable advisories and looking at big open questions about remaining emissions.Does W3C want to rec open market energy scheme? Examples might be best approach with pointers to resources. 

   - Product/Biz: Discussed incorporating procurement strategies to address Scope 3 and other supply chain issues; will also review new B Corp standards and incorporate relevant content by end of June; Will also address GH issue on consolidating some of the biz/product guidelines before end of June.

   - Measurability: focus on prioritization, subsetting, Lukasz has put together a sheet of guidelines and how/if they are measurable. Adam is working on figuring out a single number score as well. 

4. Community + News

   - Tzviya: Been speaking to people at the Green Software Foundation, there’s likely going to be formal collaboration between their groups and ours. If anyone wants to sign up to participate to the workshops it would be great. Not for profits can join the Green Software Foundation for free. We’ll share the info with the group when we get it

   - Alex: there’s also a page where not for profits can join for free that Chris shared last time.

   - Jennifer: We’re working on setting up a meeting to get together via Savvycal for UX.

5. [Open Issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) ([Kanban](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198))

   - **WSG:** [#71](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/71) (WebDev), [#69](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/69) & [#70](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/70) (Hosting)

   - **IG:** [#47](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/47) (All), [#48](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/48) (Measurability)

6. Other discussion/questions
