# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-08-28

## https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/90

**Attendees:**  Ines Akrap (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tim Frick (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jen Strickland, Rose Newell, Denis DIDIER, Sarah Zama, Siddesh Wagle, Nick Lewis


## Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1g6UIYvl71sq3ymd1bEy1KWV0shVSHzwp/view?usp=sharing


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** Editorial update progress report.

     - [**Ready**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls)**:** Section Intros, Success Criteria, Benefits.

     - **Todo:** Subheadings, Examples, Intro Update, Global Fixes, W3C Checks, GH Issues, Rating API, Link Updates.

     - Target release date: mid-September

     - Notes:

       - Completed all of the SCs

       - Working on the sub-headings

       - Working on the examples - code based, url based.

       - Sub-headings: Alex’s approach is technical. Rose’s approach is summarizing intent, feeling that technical info is provided in the details, and summary makes it more approachable. Both approaches are valid. Lots of discussion about figuring out how to present this. We will stick with Alex’s explanations for now, consider how to make use of Rose’s text.

- **TF stand up:** what support do you need?

  - **Biz/Product:** [Next steps for the business and product strategy guidelines](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/91)

  - **Biz/Product:** Last call to participate in biz/product’s next meeting. [Complete the poll here](https://savvycal.com/p/timfrick/35f48f81). Meeting scheduled later today.

  - **UX:** first workshop last week, meeting tomorrow, working on scheduling September session

  - **Metrics:** have a plan for how we’ll work. All impacts and GRI will be removed from spec and out into API. This will give TF time to come up with a scoring system. Alex will add info to Intro. Adam will join next meeting, has ideas about how to target individual SCs with specific variables using Fershad’s spreadsheet.

  - Others? (please add here)

- **Update from chairs on content organization**

  - We have tags sitting at the bottom of “additional info”. Tzviya suggested making it more obvious to user so when you click on a guideline/SC it will add a bubble so that you know which filter has been applied. We talked about a new organizational structure last week content/systems/org - we are not doing for this milestone, but will consider after.

- [**TPAC**](https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/) **planning:** IG meeting, AGWG meeting, Web Perf meeting

  - Please register even if remote.

  - Half day IG meeting: Nov 13

    - Workshopping organizing guidelines

    - Strategy for greater awareness - evangelizing the guidelines, fact sheet, reaching out to W3C members (esp tool developers like Ace, Lighthouse)

    - Regulatory strategies?

  - Few hours each with AGWG and Web Perf

    - Web Perf:

    - AGWG:

  - Other topics to cover:

    -

4. **Community + News**

   - Nick’s project: <https://theclimatedictionary.com/>

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - [Glossary terms that need defining, please add entries](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/106).

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - None
