# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-07-24

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/75

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tim Frick (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jen Strickland, Łukasz Mastalerz , Thorsten Jonas, François Burra (Climate Product Leaders), Rose Newell, Andrew Wright, Eloisa Guerrero, Adam Newman, James Christie, Ryan Sholin, Chris Adams, Sarah Zama, Anne Faubry, Emma Horrell, Denis DIDIER, Crystal Preston-Watson

## Recording
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/MGYQClG2Cj06Uqnwa7CW_rACWRQ8yfNmpQR741mt9stNUyQnbILSg4ltxao3hUM.qzaYyy-Bq5S1mv-0
Passcode: P2Sf?!yV 

Permission to record and share recordings widely

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **7/31 Release update (Alex)**
   - Alex: Get the editorial content pushed through into GitHub. Rose has been working on readability, consistency, accuracy, and so on. Problematic working with a large document with Google. Waiting for the final one– Rose will update when. From this point forward, we'll be using GitHub.

   - Tzviya: Will do a walkthrough of [GitHub with W3C’s tools](https://www.w3.org/guide/github/) next week.
   - Alex: Will ensure to funnel everything through to GitHub. Feel free to provide feedback, comment, and submit Pull Requests. Everyone can get involved in this centralised repository. Our main GitHub repository is <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg>.

   - Tim: It will not make it into the spec if it is not on GitHub. You are responsible to put it in there, or talk to Alex.

   - Alex: If someone has quite a bit to add, they can link from an issue to a Google Doc, that’s fine initially. But the goal is to use GitHub to allow for open contributions.

3. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Jennifer: How the UX TF got to where they are, they didn’t have any contribution for some time and came down to Rose and I -- on a better track today. We tried to stay open as some folks are not yet comfortable in GitHub.

   - Tim: Please review the videos and notes from last week.

4. **Continue discussion about prioritization and metrics**
   - Carbon impact/Energy Use (including
     - Summary:
       - Fershad: suggested focussing on energy, not just carbon. Carbon can obscure information because carbon intensity changes in different parts of the world, so can give skewed results. It’s also something you do not have direct control over as a front end web developer, whereas you _do_ have some control over energy.
   - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/91>)

   - <https://mgifford.github.io/wsg-priority/>
   - Tim: Prioritisation on metrics -- anyone on Metrics TF for baseline?
     - If carbon is the right metric to use?
   - Tzviya:Is carbon impact sufficient or there need to be other components for metrics.
   - Adam: You need energy data to consider carbon data, and energy impact before discussing carbon, for operational purposes. Without adopting a model, it’s impossible to assign energy impact to these guidelines. The guidelines should remain unopinionated, using research to weigh the individual success criteria. The criteria need to be specific and can be assessed by human or machine, then weighing that data and prioritising them. There are two different measurement techniques that don’t sit together-- We need to define what the guidelines are trying to achieve.
   - Adam: Every conversation about measurement falls quickly to environmental impact and carbon, but the high level objective of the WSG is broader than carbon. It’s hard to think where to start-- bringing energy and carbon into the conversation will take over and will overshadow any of the broader impacts. If we talk about data and research to weigh things, we can avoid limitations in tools like Lighthouse.

   - Ryan: One of the things Fershad pointed out is that there’s a different visibility into control over metrics. Depending on your role, you may have other things you can control and optimise. Thinking of energy, consumption , and frameworks that you can use to measure the GWF and CPU energy intensity usage. Staying narrow on carbon is fine for hosting and infrastructure, but for UX and other categories, the conversation needs to be about the energy consumption of your front-end. I’m having a difficult time separating those.

   - Adam: WSG is split into 4 sections at a high level, but from a modeling point of view, taking roles out of the equation and looking at the development lifecycle and the decisions made along the way influence sustainability impacts. They come from physical devices, the demand for physical devices, and we want to reduce that. If we had a simple high-level goal, it’s to reduce demand for physical devices and the energy consumption associated with them.

   - Tim: We want to prioritise guidelines so that people who are early on in their journey have something to work with and understand, a good entry for any level of experience or role, based on your own experience and situation. Mike’s prototype last week is a good start to prioritise, and lay out the simple questions you might have input on.

   - Anne: I’m always worried about measurements, the manufacturing phase is so important compared to the usage space and it’s forgotten when we only focus on energy. There is carbon tunnel vision, and we forget other impacts which are harder to measure. How do you tackle those two topics?

   - Adam: The only way to reduce emissions is either through optimising the manufacturing process or driving less demand for physical devices. If we separate those two things out of the equation, we can obtain data by separate mechanisms.

   - Anne: As a designer, we have an impact on the renewal of devices, for example if we use too much cache or need to update operating systems. We want to make digital services compatible with the oldest devices and lowest bandwidth as much as possible.

   - Adam: That makes perfect sense because on the tooling side, how I’d deal with that is position a design tool with designers so that as they are creating designs in a tool, they can run a measurement that takes into account the potential screen energy.

   - Anne: More of CPU and memory energy than screen.

   - Adam: In a static design, even CPU would be hard to position into at all, will be defined by decisions that developers make on the libraries they use and code they write them.

   - Tzviya: Part of the goal of the conversation is to figure out how to improve doc for publication, not just measuring but figuring out how to have this ribbon through the whole document and don’t have to go through the whole document.

   - Jennifer: There are many decisions made in design and research and strategy that are not where you’re thinking Adam, we need to have better education, cross-conversation between design and development. Not just a tool, we need ot educate people.

   - Thorsten: We’re not only influencing by design how it looks and how energy intensive it is, but also decisions that users make. Building a more sustainable choice by designing a sustainable product.

5. **Should Product and Business be separated (https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/86)
6. **Task Force Breakouts**
   - Group Feedback (Blockers & Updates)
   - UX: **Agenda**
1) Update on content work for July milestone: What needs to be done until July 31 and who does what.
   - Jen will compile everyone's feedback into a single document for Rose to review.
   - Then, I believe Tzviya and Alex will review and put it into Github for a public review cycle — need input from Tzviya and Alex.
   - **_Goal:_** Understanding of the July milestone to ensure alignment.

2) Next week on 7/31, we will determine a date for a longer meeting to work through the spreadsheet & Topics feedback in a workshop format.

   - For today, let's discuss next steps for going through the spreadsheet and topics raised ahead of the workshop.

   - **_Goal:_** Alignment on the way forward.

3) **Reminder:** There is an optional Friday meeting / working session that is open to non-IEs/members

4) OUTPUT: Everyone should come to 7/31’s meeting with some ideas of when they will be able to attend a workshop in August. We could do it after the regular meeting or on Fridays. I’d love for Alisa to be able to attend, too, so it may not be a 10 am.

- WebDev:  Not meeting right now
- Hosting: Not meeting right now
- Product/Biz:
- Measurability:
  - Proposal for using the high-level goal to reduce demand for physical devices and the energy consumption associated with them. Looking at direct impacts as measurable
  - Why are we citing the example of image size repeatedly?
    1. It’s plausible for a front end developer to demonstrate they made a change (it’s verifiable that they did it, and it’s a thing a developer is expected to be able to do)
    2. It’s possible to measure the change in size as a result of doing so. (you can demonstrate how large the change is, not just that it happened)

7. Community + News

   - Tzviya: MOU between W3C and Green Software Foundation is about to be signed.

   - Tzviya: [TPAC](https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/) Registration is open. It’s in Kobe, Japan this year. We are meeting on the Thursday, and will have meetings with the WebPerf group. We’ll also have remote attendants in the meeting. If you have questions, please reach out to me.

   - Alex: It’s free for invited experts to attend remotely.

   - Tzviya: If you’d like to talk about the Invited Experts Fund, I'd be happy to talk about that.

8. [Open Issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) ([Kanban](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198))

   - [**WSG**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)**:** None

   - **IG:** None

9. Other discussion/questions

   - None
