# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-07-31

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/77

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Adam Newman, Shane Herath, Jennifer Strickland, Andrew Wright, James Christie (till 1030ET), Emma Horrell, Eloisa Guerrero, Anne Faubry, Thorsten Jonas


## Recording
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/wot220OpmuqX4SqZZ4aLxQ5u1wMdyVOw5g_hdGIvZEHlQNI88vWsY-ohZAMkbchm.rdocL-zpP9ocKLDT
Passcode: fea#5oUb 

Permission to record and share recordings widely

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Tzviya Github walkthrough/discussion (Note: [W3C Guide](https://www.w3.org/guide/github/))

     - Deferring till next week. Today’s session was sparsely attended (summer vacations), so Tzviya held it back. Refer to the Guide above in the meantime.

     - Attendees prompted to attempt onboarding with Github ahead of time.

   - Minutes: No comments / questions from attendees.

3. **Next steps for publishing a draft**

   - Rose has been moving documents to Alex Dawson for editorial.

   - Migrating from google docs. Google docs is not the best choice - it can’t cope with heavy editorial [markup].

   - Rose has moved docs into MS Word. Word isn’t ideal, but doing it for this initial version for ease of reworking, rewording.

     - Making content user-friendly, less technical.

     - Edits will not generally change the purpose of any input - Alex will come back to the taskforce if there are any changes in purpose.

     - Additional goal: working more measurability into the guidelines to align with W3C goals.

   - Rose has reached out to the UX taskforce for input.

   - Alex will do an editorial pass, putting comments / pull requests in Github.

   - Attendees are encouraged to review and comment.

   - Google Docs will be removed from out workflow.

   - Want to add, remove, move, merge, tweak, update? Go to Github. Learn Markdown for presentation formatting.

   - Longer term, moving away from all other document formats.

   - Internal release will follow soon; will then be circulated and reviewed by others in W3C. Targeting September.

  
4. **Task Force Breakouts**

   - Group Feedback (Blockers & Updates)

   - UX:

     - Review state of copy editing

     - Document availability for an August workshop

       - August 15 1 pm Eastern, 6 pm in London, 7 pm Berlin, 10:30 pm Mumbai

       - August 22 1 pm Eastern, 6 pm in London, 7 pm Berlin, 10:30 pm Mumbai

     - Minutes:

       - Get well soon Rose!

       - Kudos to Andrew Wright for his copy-editing contributions. Consider lining him up as backup for Rose.

       - If you haven’t finished your spreadsheet feedback, please do so soon.

       - Calendar poll to follow.

       - The group reviewed the times / dates. The 15th is no good for Thorsten. 22nd seems ok.

       - Jen proposed splitting this into 2 sessions to make it easier to bridge timezones. E.g. if we can’t reconcile West Coast USA vs Europe vs India.

       - 90 minutes seems like a good duration.

       - [james dropping from call - someone else take over minutes pls]

       - Availability of others would be September

       - Suggestion to start with Friday 22 Aug 1pm EST/6pm UK/7pm Berlin/1.30pm Mumbai and then a 2nd date for early September

       - Thorsten and Jen to prepare the first workshop (on 22nd) w/c 18 Aug

       - Mural/Miro - as a tool - does Miro have a way to do a constrained board to avoid the infinite board

       - The need for system mapping/thinking ahead of interface and technical requirements (which are measurable) - the system-level things are harder to measure and therefore run the risk of being excluded leading to negative impacts

       - True/false questions are desirable because these factors are easier to measure but there is benefit from less boolean and more qualitative indicators

       - Not everything is machine-testable

       - We need to include a focus on the processes for the cross-over between the needs of the business and the user and the planet and appreciating the compromises and consequences of each design decision

       - There are stories of where people ‘cheat the numbers’ - where the measures become targets

       - Note to get to design conferences to get the word out there

       - Still a trend to design for print rather than to design things are fluid

       - Decision trees to decide on use of impactful components -idea to have ‘weightings’ for different page elements - from text to image, to carousel to audio to video - to encourage designers to make the right decisions - Thorsten shared: <https://shouldiuseacarousel.com/>

       - We need some flexibility but the highest level of W3C will require binary true/false - being an ‘interest group’ gives us more flexibility

       - Maturity models would be useful in this

       - Adam - suggesting use of feedback loops to identify where measurements are required

- WebDev:

  - Not meeting right now

- Hosting:

  - Not meeting right now

- Product/Biz:

  - Meeting in August for an hour (date TBD) - either Aug 11 11 AM EDT/15 UTC, or Aug 19 11:00 EDT/15 UTC)

- Measurability:

  - Low, medium, high - some way to easily determine why (A-F, gold, silver, bronze, etc)

  - Tzviya: Come up with a colour scheme (in addition to naming) for the label so that it’s easy to glance at. Should also be externalised in some way since it will keep changing.

  - Tzviya: Labelling doesn’t necessarily have to be a singular score. Could also have expanded information that breaks down the positives and negatives.

  - Alex: Can be built into a specification-based API that would make it easy to implement.

  - Adam: I like the impact categories. In attempting to come up with a scoring system, we should be transparent through consensus with things that back up those assumptions.

  - Adam: Give specific criteria on how we assess whether criteria has been met or not. Start with the assumption  that all are weighted the same.

  - Alex: GRI has categories of standards <https://www.globalreporting.org/how-to-use-the-gri-standards/gri-standards-english-language/>

    - Can apply the ones that apply to the digital sector

    - Don’t have to align ourselves with all of them

  - Tzviya: Is the next step revising STAR?

  - Alex: Dependent on Rose’s edits and trying to make them RFC 2119-compliant so that wording of language is explicit.

    - Tzviya: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119>

  - Tzviya: We offer specifications, not solutions. We need to create the framework from which solutions can be created, not the solutions themselves.

  - Next Steps:

    - Separate tool for validation, similar to HTML/CSS validator.

    - <https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub33/reports/>

    - Tzviya: Need to figure out STAR and update it.

      - Alex: Rose’s updates are prerequisites because it will affect STAR on whether things are testable or not -- hold off on updating STAR until we’ve dealt with the specification first.

    - Alex: Need to determine if something is machine testable. STAR are more theoretical exercises.

    - Need another call to define the immediate roadmap.

  - Meeting 31st August

5. Community + News

   - None

6. [Open Issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) ([Kanban](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198))

   - [**WSG**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)**:** Lots of issues for TF’s to discuss on GitHub, feel free to add comments as these will be addressed once Rose’s editorial has been integrated into the spec.

   - **IG:** None

7. Other discussion/questions

   - None

