# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-09-25

**Attendees:**  Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Andrew Wright, Eloisa Guerrero, Shane Herath, Nick Lewis, Thorsten Jonas, Jennifer Strickland, Susannah Hill, Rose Newell, Siddesh, Sarah Zama

## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/z643yiPjZJxGv2Ot5Jcd98YKjk1C0NA2Cy11cSsyxTqzaORjm2RqJXnScqhikYqL.C2HYYnu11fzJR4EX
Passcode: u1=2YerP 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
New Ombuds policy available https://www.w3.org/guide/process/coc-incident-resolution-ombuds.html

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion**
   - CfC to publish Draft Note
     - Tzviya: CFC (Call for Consensus) to publish into official W3C space, not being reviewed by an advisory committee, just to get it into a more formal space. Ask you to +1 or -1 or 0 if you support, don’t care, or are actively opposed to, respectively.
       - W3C TR calls them recommendations, not actually called standards. https://www.w3.org/TR/
       - Once we publish to this space, it will be reflected in the list of specifications that are W3C or a draft that W3C has
       - **Resolution: Publish Draft**
   - Project Review Summary

     - Tim: What we learned from the [project review](https://www.w3.org/2025/09/25-wsg-minutes.html) scheduled this morning.

     - Tzviya: Anybody in the team can ask for a project review and Tim, Mike, Alex, Ines and Tzviya presented our work to the team to update on where we are. Got some interesting insights from Kevin White, team contact for AGWG about how we can work in parallel on scoring systems, assertions, and some of the UI they’ve been looking at. Philippe Le Hagret who oversees the technical part of W3C had advice to move forward and work with other groups in W3C. We also talked about communicating with W3C members especially in Asia. How can we communicate with people in China, Japan, and how important it is to put ourselves out there at TPAC.

     - Tim: In terms of next steps, what do we need to do?

     - Tzviya: Start implementing the suggestions and 2 immediate takeaways; will talk to Kevin to set up an agenda for our meeting with AGWG at TPAC and look into scheduling less formal meetings at TPAC and think about who else we want to meet there.

     - Alex: 2 things brought up; 1 of the things was to have a more regular meeting that is Asia-friendly time that was brought up by the meeting we just had to encourage W3C from Asia to get on board with it. The other thing Kevin brought up was about conformance but how we do it isn’t as much of an issue because we’re not as reliant on how we approach conformance, we don’t have a total conformance approach, we are very much progression rather than perfection. Methodology going with impact API and so on. Make it easier to work with by removing the numbering system and a few other tweaks.

   - [****Updated schedule****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/?tab=readme-ov-file#schedule)**:**

     - **Oct 15 -** Content organization updated
     - **Nov 15 -** New/combined issues (overlaps addressed)
     - **Dec 15 -** Next release
     - **Ongoing -** Horizontal review

       - Tim: We have a lot of groups working on different things, after December 18 we will likely change things with the idea of publishing in April.
         - The above are milestones for Task Forces to keep this timeline in mind and reach out to chairs for support if necessary.
         - Keep things on time and on schedule, December 15 is going to come soon and is a busy time of the year.

       - Tzviya: We’ve set a deadline for content organisation, but I expected a little more feedback from the discussion with the team.

       - Jen: When you decided on this timeline, how do you plan to get that amount of work by October 15? We need to co-design and get people who might use the guidelines involved. I’m worried about us making decisions without information from people who will be using these guidelines. I tried to find a free tool for collaboration.

       - Alex: Categorisation is the main bulk of content, but asking people in the SC itself. Shuffling the content could be like shifting the deck chairs on the Titanic. We’ve got a strict schedule to keep to because our charter has a deadline, we need to get this work done by a specific date. We have to be realistic of what can be done and there’s still a lot of work to cram in before we can get this all done.

       - Jen: We need to have all of that information in one place and we don't necessarily have to reorganise the guidelines. We need a 1- and 5-year plan, create a roadmap for that short- and long-term.

       - Alex: I don’t think we can plan for the long term as it’s up to W3C to rechart us or not.

       - Jen: Trying to get it done in less than a month is rough and we want people to provide input. We should be clear about what we want to do exactly by October 15.

       - Tzviya: Decision is that content organisation decision should be made by October 15. Decide on titles of the sections, not necessarily where the content goes or reorganising the content. Make decisions on overlapping content, and decide on new and combined issues. It’s possible that some of the proposed reorganisation might need the content overlap to be easier to deal with, the decision to make in the next week or so is what content organisation makes it easiest for users and what makes our job easiest as well. The decision by October 15 is what the content organisation will be, not which SC falls into each piece.

       - Tim: WCAG folks have been struggling with the same thing.

       - Jen: AGWG did a lot of user research, created user personas and documented everything. What we’re going to do based on our time constraints is organisation of the guidelines that we have established, meaning we bring users into our designs. It’s fine if we don’t have time for that, but let’s be clear about that and put it on a to-do list and find a middle ground that we can accomplish within the timeframe that you’ve set.

       - Tzviya: How would you word it?

       - Jen: I think it’s about managing expectations. We should make the time for doing open card sort, user research, alongside while we are doing this.

       - Tzviya: AGWG has been around for a long time and its charter was 3 years, so it follows a different timeline than any other group. I want to make sure that everybody’s clear on what the expectations are. It would be nice to write user stories, but I want to move on and still haven’t come to a decision about the actual organisation that we want.

       - Rose: I see Jen’s perspective and the UX group has had hold-ups and it has played a bigger role here, but UX folks in general are not used to/comfortable of putting things out into the world without knowing for sure how it would be received by those audiences. Perhaps we’re concerned with adoption, and there are things I would still like to add to the UX guidelines and we still have gaps to fill.

       - Mike:This is a 1.0 release, just something we need to get out there. We need to get it out to talk about and socialise because we’re in a climate crisis, and we need to be able to have something to put out there to engage governments and have conversations. If it’s shorter, it’s better. If we look at WCAG 2.2, we lost all kinds of things that are not in there at this point in 2025. Some things are harder to manage even if they are significant issues. The tension between what we want to have ideally versus what we need right now to get legislation to shift policy directions. We need to shift the discussion to how the web is built. We are going to get user feedback, but it’s hard to get people to come to these sessions. We need to get to something we can talk about publicly and try to get this done in 5 years instead of 10-15 like AGWG.

       - Tim: The guidelines are publicly available and everyone is encouraged to evangelise. Things are already happening, but there is a lot of feedback being solicited already.

       - Ines: In the meeting we just had for project review, something that Philippe said we are doing for operability, not standards or educational purposes. This is something I forget about, I do so much work evangelising in conferences and networking, and ask people what they think about these categories and everyone was fine with the way it is now. It was very biased but it is a large group of people who wear different hats. With the tagging system that Alex mentioned, I think everyone is fine with the way it is and okay with overlap.

       - Jen: We developed user personas in AGWG, and I think people in this call don’t understand who we’re targeting. I got pushback on talking to government people and understanding how we compose things and write things. We have to be clear about who we’re serving, who we’re targeting in our 1.0 and we can do a lot of work outside this group to do the education part, but we need to understand who we’re targeting and be very clear.

       - Tzviya: Clarifying who the target audience is important but what came up last call, it’s also important to be adopted by regulators. They shouldn’t be our primary audience-- they should be secondary. The primary regulators are implementers -- people who will point to this and say that’s a guideline to implement what we write and fulfill our regulations. The people who are going to implement this are the people who will be developing the websites. Not the people writing regulations. We are targeting web developers, UX people, etc. I propose we leave the content organisation as is and in the future we can look into developing educational materials and parallel websites that use other content organisation. I’d like a CFC for that role-based organisation.

         - In chat: +1 = 11, 0 = 1

        **- Resolution: Maintain Role-based Organization**

       - Alex: Development could not only apply to web but offline and app-based development, and our guidelines are primarily focused on areas that apply to internet-based and web-based technology which are self-contained apps that have no relevance to the web itself. Having the inclusion of web to web development emphasises where our focus is.

       - Tzviya: I don’t think redundancy is a problem.

       - Jen: I found it disjointing because we’re already doing the web, it doesn’t make sense, why not take the word out because it’s the world wide web and web sustainability guidelines.

       - Susannah: We kind of have a nomenclature across the W3C that it’s very redundant but I think we’re kind of stuck with it.

       - Jen: If we’re going to do web development, then we should do web product and strategy, web measurements and metrics, web UX.

       - Rose: We need to listen to where people are coming from. We need to be careful with regards to the Code of Conduct making sure that we’re not interrupting people that can be triggering for people in general. Can we try to be inclusive?

       - Tzviya: Discussion about the word web can be had offline. We need to move on to other items.

   - **TF’s:** Horizontal Review progress? (i18n / a11y / Security & Privacy)

     - Mike: Tried to reach out to people in the accessibility space and I have not landed a good response.

       - Tzviya: Have you followed the steps outlined for the actual formal accessibility review?

         - After we get to /TR, we’ll open the GitHub issue that opens a horizontal issue.

   - **Alex:** [**Impact JSON file review for clarity**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wk5270ryJuTiu-47CBCfNMa2jnyRZP67/view?usp=sharing)

     - Tim: Note on a review for clarity?

     - Alex: In Measurability TF, we look at ways of measurement of impact and one of the ways we’ve thought about going about this is having a simple bit of JavaScript that can be attached to each SC and the JSON file will have within it the SC and score, which is determined by how the Measurability Team and will also have a labelling system. We can go with low, medium, high, etc. As the data gets changed and things move along, that can be updated and the documentation can be updated and we don’t need to touch the specification. Other tools can also take advantage of that data. How we’re going to go about it is Fershad used Mike’s AI hack.

     - Mike: I used an AI hack to provide some guidance on how you would prioritise it and this is trying to indicate that there’s many different users who are potentially looking at what they can. How do you provide that range of understanding of what is your actual impact and how you prioritise that? I created a mechanism to try and address that.

   - **Adam:** Scoring logistics

     - Alex: Adam had been working on using what Mike had produced with AI, he came up with basic scoring metrics using the AI and Fershad was going to take that along with existing metric data within specification and draw parallels and see any differentiation, which ones can be flagged as inconsistent. Use the data Adam came up with. Because it’s drawn alongside the GRI, that would allow us to come up with some kind of scoring metric so we could add those numbers together and come up with an initial score. The general consensus is that conformity would be along the lines of the B Corp model. Rather than having people having to comply with absolutely everything all at once, there would be threshold levels that would be cumulative, adding all of what you’ve conformed with.

       - Impact API is based on guideline number and SC number, if we’re merging certain things together, that will impact what the number is for each one. Once we’ve tackled what we’re doing about any overlapping criteria, and then stick the API in and have it ready to fly.

4. **Community + News**

   - Green IO London recap

     - Alex:Met plenty of people from all over the place. Plenty of talks and notes for potential things we might want to think about in future editions of the specification as well. Got to talk to people in regulatory and government people. A few web standards people were also there.

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**
