# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-09-18

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Eloisa Guerrero, Jen Strickland, Andrew Wright, Thorsten Jonas (for the first 30min), Nick Lewis, Siddesh Wagle, Emma Horrell, Adam Newman, Rose Newell, Crystal Preston-Watson

## Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely 
 https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/ENXuonmJGwhgoxVdlYzpjPZFoeJOjkMtoNtX-QiEaLLj0K2nRLYyfWjCFJ7zFYlI.F9hNysuiqUEHMSjj
Passcode: 6^*r=trT 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - Wide/Horizontal Review
     - Started the process by reaching out to few groups to introduce new guidelines version (Out on Monday)
     - Jen: had chat with APA group, open to chats, they are quite clear
     - Tzviya: we are presenting one week from today and will have more clarity on how to proceed. Anyone else who volunteered for horizontal review has any questions
     - Rose: any examples on how someone else has done it, to know how it looks

     - Mike reached out to Accessibility

     - Jen: AGWG is not a good way to go. Tzviya: clarifying that it is TPAC vs horizontal review

     - Tim: we have been in our bubble for a while so it will be great to get some outside feedback

   - [Content Restructuring](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/111)

     - Tim: time to start soon, we need to decide if we want to take GOLD or TRIM or maybe change structure (role-based, area-based, …)

     - Jen: We need to have a conversation on restructuring, so someone wearing multiple hats knows how to use it, where to start. There are also questions on UX review if we need to move, replace, etc. Tim agrees for product and biz.

     - Alex: content overlap and how we categorize is not the same. Some content can be merged and it doesn’t matter for structure. Would keep those as separate discussions.

     - Tzviya: depending on org structure, we may end up merging some overlapping ones. It is a bigger conversation to have. If we stick with the roles, we need to make sure to make clear why is there an overlap

     - Jen: taking all of the guidelines, miro board, moving them to a different structure. One that starts happening we can see overlaps and visualize ideas for new structure. How this conversation can be facilitated? Chairs?

     - Tim encouraging Jen to share her vision further

     - Jen: individual guidelines and SC across the board horizontally. We can duplicate to start moving them around and start having conversations about it. It can be done async using a Mural board with sticky notes. It can be tricky but it really depends on how it is designed.

     - Tim: should we have categories already defined or this would help us

     - Jen: no pre-defined. With this exercise we could group them and get new categories. We could use optimal workshop tool to open this process up to a wider audience, but it could be tricky.

     - Tzviya: proposing next week structure options to the wider team. Then we would probably have these categories already defined. We need to figure out how we work with overlapping SCs

     - Tim: different recommendations for categories, Alex and Tzviya to present their suggestions

     - Tzviya: content, systems/tools and organisation. All of WCAG is based on content.

     - Alex: GOLD and TRIM are similar to POUR in WCAG. Chris Adams had GOLD (green/open/lean/distributed) few years ago, we didn’t know it so Alex thought to create something and came up with TRIM (transparent,resilient/inclusive/minimal). More info: <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Fsw38rJ0IgF_Vhln6IrSG5YmO6zWk9Fu/view>

     - Adam: What would be the purpose of the acronyms? Would those be the new categories?

     - Tim: not necessarily drop. We could still have role tags to keep them in the same way as today

     - Alex: current issue with categories is that people think a bit exclusively to their role, so to avoid that we are looking for a different categorisation. Also some of the guidelines are shared cross roles

     - Tzviya: we haven’t always received positive feedback on role-based

     - Jen: I had a different vision, that follows how people approach work — not roles, but stages and perspectives: Planning & Strategy, Research, Design & Structure, Engineering, Measurement, Monitoring, Continuous Improvement. Trying to think from the perspective of people who would use the WSG, what needs they bring. More of different stages of a project than roles that are doing it. We need to understand WSG audience: things we do in our jobs not just our titles.

     - Adam: that makes sense, that lifecycle-based approach rather than the role-based. There are well formed cycles in development that we can lean into.

     - Tim: We’re trying to talk about the structure of the guidelines, if there’s useful of subcategorisation such as what Sid brought up, we can have that conversation.

     - Thorsten: I like the approach from Jen’s, looking at the trouble we have at the UX workshops, there is a lot of overlapping. The easiest way to approach it with this life cycle and with this process, that’s how people build their things.

     - Tim: I think the life cycle analysis angle is an interesting one for sure.

     - Tzviya: Life cycle analysis is interesting but I think it’s similar to the role-based one and we’ll run into the same kind of issues. Not necessarily pushback, but we’ll have issues with overlapping.

     - Tim: Research?

     - Tzviya: What’s design, what’s engineering, with guidelines people in general don’t read through the whole thing so we want to make it easy for people, if it makes sense from a specification perspective.

     - Jen: The way people approach work rather than their job titles – job titles are too constraining, such as Rose who is a designer and engineer, but if she has a freelance client, she needs to think about structure, hosting, research, and sketch and get feedback on it before starting the work.I was thinking of the people who use the WSG. In AGWG we define the users of WCAG and I feel a little foggy on who we collectively – you as the audience for the WSG – if there’s any documentation on who you view as the audience, maybe that’s something that would help us have more effective communication if we are all aware of who we’re doing this for.

     - Tim: My hunch is each TF is writing for their own community, e.g. web developers are targeting developers, business & strategy targeting product managers and business leaders.

     - Alex: I’m thinking that the problem with specs in general when people look in those, they don’t read the whole thing and tend to pick and look at individual components, so the problem with a life cycle approach is that they will not look at things from a lifecycle approach, they’re going to start one point and work through it til its conclusion. Go back to this point if it’s appropriate, or may have done other points and retroactively taking care of other parts. We need to be considerate of the fact that when it comes to specs that people will be picky when they’re going in and applying certain parts of it. They look at specs as trying to solve problems in immediacy rather than going through the whole thing as a deep dive.

     - Jen: I was thinking more of phase-ism work is that people could come to it with whatever their questions are at that time. I expect it’s more like what Adam says, I have a project, these are the things they want to work on, so how do I communicate these changes we need to make and align them to WSG and give guidance to client. The roles-based one was too rigid – few people wear a single hat these days. The things we are doing are not necessarily roles-based, but activities and priorities.

     - Mike: It might be easier to choose between GOLD/TRIM if we identified the SC that will fit into them. I used AI to provide some examples of what this could look like and how this might be organised. Let us look at the practical implications of how this is interpreted by somebody rather than theoretically what these constructs might have. Let’s think about how this is going to clump the issues.

     - Tzviya: Thinking about the audience is important, the AGWG people spend a lot of time thinking about who will be looking at the specs. It’s going to be a wide variety of people or people running the regulators, or people who are working at data centres, or as code runners at small organisations. We should come up with a list of potential audiences, and it’s going to be a wide variety of people. It might not actually help us at all but worth thinking over. None of us warmed up to GOLD/TRIM, but maybe people do like them? We’re not trying to copy WCAG, we’re working along the same lines of WCAG. We don’t have to be cutesy, but we do want it to work well.

       - What organisational structure makes sense? When we look at these terms, it’s a mishmash of different types of success criteria and the organisational structures we have now don’t help me think about them. I want an organisational structure that is not organised around terms, but around how do you think about these things? I want to make sure my work is sustainable, and how do I know?

     - Rose: I wanted to highlight what Sid said, it wasn’t just about UX category, it was inspired by that but personally while editing the whole things, there were thematic links, things that were not necessarily within the right order or grouped together that I felt they logically would be. If someone comes at it and have a main task and can’t read through the entire guidelines, I like this idea of splitting things up into different areas. The chapters as they are are too big, I could deal much better if we had subsections, and we shouldn’t overlook the draft that Sid has done.

       - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/133>

     - Sid: While I was doing this categorisation work, maybe the guidelines were designed to line up together, sometimes you see guidelines that are apart from each other. How can we use a format to focus just on one thing, for example, just on metrics? It might give users a way to handle things at a more granular level.

     - Tim: I’d like to make a suggestion, I’d like to give us a deadline – Thursday, October 2, we’re barely towards our April deadline so want to make sure we’re moving forward and we’re on board with this.

     - Jen: Ahead of that we need to plan some activities in order to get there. Looked up an optimum workshop on my own and asked people to join and put it out on social media and ask how they would approach the WSG? I think it’s important to bring the people/users we’re serving in and I don’t think we now belong in this wizard’s tower as sufficiently equipped to do it as someone who’s never looked at WSG, or a regulator on how they would approach regulation and what are the ways in which they would be able to access it intellectually.

     - Jen: I’d like us as a collective to agree on what things we can do to get to that deadline instead of having these ad hoc conversations and guessing based on our personal experiences and expertise. We need to know what’s required from a specification perspective. We need to understand who we’re doing this for and what their needs are.

     - Tzviya: 2 weeks is not enough time to run workshops, but we absolutely need to get this done and if we decide to rearrange it, there’s a lot of work to put everything in the right boxes. Slide 15 in my slide, Chris Adams is in a good place to get some feedback, and the metrics team is going to be meeting on Tuesday also. We need feedback from the metrics team as well. If there’s one section that doesn’t have anything measurable that they think is ok but something to think about how it will look. If it’s human testable or machine testable and see how that looks.

     - Alex: The API I’m working on is built against each particular SC, so there’s no problem shuffling the content around. The scores will be linked against each of the SC and there will be some kind of score based on guideline level, then SC level, and so on.

     - Adam: This restructuring process – are there actual guidelines or SC that will be rewritten to fit the new structure better?

     - Tzviya: Yes/Maybe, what could happen is some will get combined, we have that list of overlaps and depending on structure we decide on and end up combining.

     - Alex: If there’s merging dupes of content because of overlap, it won’t affect the testing too much, it’s saying the same thing so by merging any cases of dupes it’s just reducing the workload for measurability TF.

     - Tim: Trying to be aggressive with moving this stuff forward, and understand that user research takes a lot of time, it’s also acceptable to make decisions and revise as we learn new things. Tzviya will share her Slide 15 for us to shop around in the communities you work in, and pull feedback on what these various ideas are and what’s resonating the most with the people we’re involved with.

     - Jen: Chairs have a timeline on the milestones we’re trying to hit and I don’t know what that timeline looks like, but maybe we could take a look at that because we’re looking towards another specification maturity. If we plan out the roadmap to April. And break down into manageable sizes and impact on larger roadmap.

     - Alex: We had a cursory deadline for end of December, we also estimated an ETA for this to polish, allow measurability TF to do what they need to do with what has changed the specification, get everything feature-ready in time for April deadline.

     - Jen: We need to figure out what we mean when we say these things.

     - Alex: [Schedule](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/?tab=readme-ov-file#schedule)

     - Tzviya: We’re not a WG so we have different terminology from WGs.

     - Tim: We can talk about it in the chairs meeting.

     - Jen: I’m digging up a table of what I’m expecting to see of what we’re trying to do to set the scope and clarify and work on things without providing rabbit holes that take us off-track – this isn’t clear enough for what I’m looking for so I’ll show you something to see how we can be clearer about what we’re all trying to do.

     - Alex: The final draft was to have any work that needed doing to be finalised, then get measurability to do their stuff, then publication rules, and no draft notes in the editor’s notes, and cement what to put in the specification before we head down the W3C process of final stamping this.

     - Here are some examples of a roadmap that I’m thinking of ([link to the full, very long official roadmap presentation PDF](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/caregivers/discovery/20191001%20Caregiver%20Discovery%20Sprint%202%20Roadmap.pdf) — it has a lot of the supporting content and there’s even a part 1!).
   - [Review Overlapping Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/5)

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** [WSG Q3 is now released](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/)! ([Release notes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/releases))

4. **Community + News**

   - [Green IO London (24th)](https://greenio.tech/conference/15/london-2025-september)

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - **Reminder:** [TPAC Schedule Ideas](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/93)
