# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-08-21

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/87

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Thorsten Jonas, Łukasz Mastalerz, Jen Strickland, Eloisa Guerrero , Emma Horrell, Siddhesh Wagle, Nick Lewis, Rose Newell, Chris Adams, Hidde de Vries, Denis DIDIER


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/au-rnsLB5osaaty1AY_pUw-MF1DqXVHxwbHjzRjqocL6xTcxspMP5XJs9pZk7vby.0ZxV2HoY9S01lJdB
Passcode: 7y*=4z@2 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** Editorial update progress report.

     - **Ready:** [Section Introductions](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/100) / [UX SCs](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/101)

     - **Todo:** Other SCs, Additional Info, Guideline Headings, Definitions, Global Fixes, W3C Checks, Intro Update, GH Issues, Link Updates.

     - **_Notes:_**

       - Working mainly with Rose on getting editorial updates together. Process has been to work in each section in blocks, then move it over to github, to avoid one monster PR. Several small ones to be easier to review (well, relatively speaking).

       - [PR](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/100) has the first 4 intro sections. UX PR <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/101>

       - There is still time to get extra feedback.

       - Not too many changes in the intro that really change the intent of the guidelines - they mainly serve to improve the clarity and readability.

       - This process will be one for the other sets of success criteria in the other sections other than UX (i.e. infra, business, etc)

       - The reasoning for this - the success criteria are the key parts of each guideline, the extra info is supplementary.

       - There will be a chance to revisit later. This is not the last chance for feedback, but please don’t hesitate now if you can.

         - Please try to leave comments in the PR if possible.

       - Later questions, particularly about getting the guidelines “note ready” to be accepted:

         - Do these success criteria meet RFC 2119, W3C manual of style

     - Forward deadlines:

       - The goal is Sept 15th for - the next iteration / incremental version for sharing. Not technically a draft, but we’re treating it like _the equivalent to a first public working draft in W3C parlance._

       - This is important, as we’re halfway through the time-limited charter of the current interest group, and we still need time to incorporate feedback within the W3C.

   - **Tim:** [Business & Product Workshop feedback](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/business-product/aug21-2025-workshop-notes.md)

     - (see the link - there’s a lot of notes!)

     - [Poll](https://savvycal.com/p/timfrick/35f48f81) for date for the next session has gone out

   - **Tzviya:** Proposal for new organization: content/systems/organization

     - It occurred to me that if we look at this from a metrics perspective, it isn’t always obvious what we are measuring. WCAG is clearly applied to content. WSG applies to many different things. When we encountered sustainability statements, we realized that it wasn’t clear if it was website sustainability or organizational sustainability. I had the idea of reorganizing the content by content, systems (or tools, like software or CMS), and organization.

     - One of the key ideas here is that some of the criteria are easier to apply at an organisation level, vs a website or product level, following the model used for accessibility (these can be scoped to specific sites, rather than being assumed to apply to the entire organisation)

     - In the other sections there have been some comparable discussions- particularly UX, where some guidelines are candidates for merging together as they’re addressing similar things.

     - Tzviya - I don’t like the role based approach but the feedback we’ve had is that there is too much content, and the roles have been used to help filter. We might need to recognise that there is overlap, but can’t update it. We’ve been trying to see if TRIM and GOLD have been helpful to structure this, but in a number of cases it’s not obvious how to fit specific criteria into them.

   - **_Measurability (Progress and moving forward!)_**

     - **Tzviya:**

       - Haven’t been able to meet. Fershad has done a lot of commenting on [GitHub](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96#issuecomment-3208941645) -- mentioned in Slack that he thinks our goal is to take Alex’s variable spreadsheet and figure out which aspects we can use as variables for GRI mapping. He thinks sticking to current GRI buckets is more useful. Need further clarification from him and another meeting.

   - **_TPAC (Thoughts on content people would like covered)._**

     - **Tzviya:**
       - Registration has been open for a while -- if you want to attend either in-person or online, you do need to [register](https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/registration.html). We are meeting on Thursday in Kobe, Japan. We have 1 meeting scheduled for Web Performance and 1 with Accessibility Guidelines, and half a day on our own.

       - Metrics are high on the list of topics, and want to consider having breakouts on Wednesday and throughout the week. We should share with the rest of W3C what we’re working on.

       - We are hosting a [new members session](https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/schedule.html#new) a few weeks before TPAC.

     - **Chris:**

       - The verifiable credentials/claims group -- There’s a bunch of existing prior work in the public domain that has been adopted in a few places and see how much of that might be relevant for what we do here.

     - **Tzviya:**

       - VC is a complicated space, lots of work with the European wallet system right now. 

       - Some folks in VC are working on software for credentialing with W3C.

     - **Alex:**

       - I know a couple of people on VC, so we have previous communication with them.

     - **Tzviya:**

       - Worked with Ivan since starting at W3C.

     - **Alex:** Anyone have ideas on what to talk about for breakouts at TPAC?

     - **Tzviya:** Who are going in-person to TPAC? Good number of us are going (Kazuhito, Fershad, Hidde, Tzviya, Jennifer, Eloisa, Alex, …)

     - Denis: Proposal for breakouts: USE CASE of what will be useful for sustainability improvement thanks to Guidelines

     - **Tim:** Is there an opportunity to connect with W3C members to evangelise.

     - **Tzviya:** Would be a great idea to have a breakout session, and who would like to present at the breakout?

     - **Tim:** How can our group support that level of cross-collaboration and openness.

     - **Tzviya:** One of the main purposes of TPAC is getting to know other people.

4. **Community + News**

   - None

   - **Brief SCI for Web Update:**

     - Bit more info out there now:

       - <https://assemblies.greensoftware.foundation/sci-for-web>

       - Alex Dawson is confirmed in the workshops, so there is active Sustainable Web Design IG representation.

       - Likely kicking off in mid / late Sept - notifications sent out on 8th about workshop attendance - so we’ll know which orgs are involved then.

     - **Chris:** Link above is to give an idea of what kind of workshops are going to take place. There will be at least one person from SWIG who can do that. There are a limited number of slots (20 slots for the workshops). Anyone who has questions, please message me (Chris) in Slack.

     - Interesting peer reviewed paper form IEEE

       - **Challenges Related to Approximating the Energy Consumption of a Website**

       - <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11115034>

       -

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)**

   - [**WSG**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)**:** None

   - **IG:** None

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - **Siddhesh:**

     - From the application side, if I am a website developer and I am looking at the guidelines, what is the methodology for me to follow them? Is the guideline also offering me an impact framework? Or an evaluation framework?

       - Evaluation frameworks, series of steps to follow to measure, quantify, operationalise. -- Do we have a series of steps to calculate the impact and how the guidelines will speak to that.

     - **Alex:**

       - The aim of guidelines is to be broad and general, not tell people how to do this and that. W3C has a broad audience and can have their own individual ways of doing things. Aim of the WSG is to provide a broad spectrum guidance, based on evidence, what you should be aiming to do, not the specifics on implementation.

       - We do provide in the STAR document examples of how to go about doing that. They’re more techniques that are machine-testable and ideally replicable if you would like to identify step by step processes on whether SC has been realistically achieved. Techniques are not explicit about what or how to do things, not mandatory requirements -- that’s why it is in a non-normative supplement document, not in the spec itself.

     - **Siddhesh:** What is the method in which I would apply that document?

       - **Alex:** Worth looking at STAR that provides guidance on implementation and testing and methodology behind that. Might answer some of your questions.

   - **Tim:** We haven’t been focusing on educational or tooling components, there is an opportunity for organisations and communities to create their own educational material and tools, etc. Chris’s organisation does a lot of those things.

   - **Tzviya:** Read Fershad’s comment about GRI and how to incorporate or not incorporate metrics -- his proposal is to remove the impact effort and GRI ratings and give a guide about where to start.

   - **Tim:** Temporarily removing them until we get clarity around that might not be a bad idea.

   - **Alex:** Being able to realistically have measurability in place at this stage is going to be impossible, so stripping those away until we get to that stage with the available data makes probable sense.

   - **Tzviya:** Need to explain what we’re doing.

   - **Alex:** Should be a note in the introduction.

   - **Chris:** I wouldn’t feel confident doing that by myself between now and the 15th. Too many scenarios to account for-- if we don’t have to do it, then maybe it makes sense to remove it. There’s an argument on legibility and not giving people too much to think about that would allow us to defer it. Might make things easier.

   - **Tzviya:** We need some sort of plan for how we will introduce this, some sort of measurability. Is it just based on our own expertise or evidence-based metrics? This is why metrics isn’t making progress.

   - **Mike:** Can we point to a couple different approaches and pick one and compare it year after year?

   - **Alex:** I made a proposal a while back -- safety implementation of standards with this like implementation levels through the use of the API, not strictly within the specs, but connected to it that provides input for it as and when the data is available. We could potentially provide an option for the measurability built into the spec and connected to the API, and when the measurability scoring is put into place and produced live within the specs. It would be separate from specs and would not affect it, but could be updated frequently. Might be a cleaner way of dealing with this issue.

   - **Tzviya:** Who’s building the API?

   - **Alex:** I built an API for STAR, and I can come up with a standardized thing that can host on the repository. If it makes our codebase cleaner and solves a lot of problems, it helps save me time with maintaining the specs as editor.

   - **Jennifer:** If something happens to Alex, how is the codebase available for someone else to take over?

   - **Alex:** Will just need some JavaScript that replicates each of the guidelines or SC and linked to a JSON file that is easily cross-referenced by anyone who knows basic JS. Should be well documented in GitHub repo. It’ll be open source and other people can contribute to it.

   - **Tzviya:** Final decision-maker? Will talk in the next chair meeting about how to set this up in a separate repo. Should have a call for consensus for this to agree to extract the GRI information from the document and put this into a companion API.

   - RESOLUTION: Extract GRI data from specification and create parallel API
