# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-05-07

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle, Emma Horrell, Nick Lewis, Chris Adams, James Christie, Sarah Zama


### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/N0uJqmZj0GRWgSBDKXjRXeT6u5ZCRLa16yAWgSAANhKO72nMdrkQEleVHOLYvidO.bPYDO3o2KwLuOR0P?pwd=DMNdTtjH2vkyettvZwAAIAAAAGO9MnSJf5POsTxGCjI3KJ66ufHiPNfUMUeNsAp-ki2lIsor7WkylgFeQlxD48yHIjAwMDAwNA>


### Scribes
James


### Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)


2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - None.

   - Tim noted that progress is being made, peer reviews are complete and are now with the editors.
     - One guideline left to do.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Charter: update about options , timelines, blockers

     - Tim: how do we move forward. Charter expires in October. We’d like to publish guidelines before reupping the charter.

     - Tzviya:

       - we are scheduled to create certain deliverables (guidelines, impact metrics). Various dates to bear in mind like vacation, TPAC, etc. This is relevant as we need time to do horizontal reviews

       - our main options

         - 3 month extension (delays everything till after TPAC)

         - New charter - could coincide with TPAC and start a new group then.

         - Dependencies: publish date. It will be reviewed by TAG and other working groups.

       - Question for group: are there any strong opinions on our dates and targets?

         - Tim: prefers to get this out sooner than later, but be realistic.

       - Recharter decisions can be delayed till June/July, at which point there will be feedback (so we can judge remaining effort).

         - Mike: a lot of activities depend on getting our document published, so sooner is better.

         - Rose: guidelines can still be improved post-launch [so need not be perfect]

         - Chris: Is there an approval lag (e.g. W3C decision-makers) for re-chartering or delaying?

           - Tzviya: There is a review process. Then horizontal review of the charter - checking support from other groups. E.g. Privacy Grp may have feedback, but generally not expected to be burdensome. Then the Advisory Committee reviews it - which is where it got stuck last time.

           - Alex: membership will review as part of the Advisory Committee, and that is where some objections have arisen historically.

           - Tim: improved definitions of key terms e.g. sustainability should pre-empt push-back

       - Alex: TAG has only reviewed ¼ of the doc, so we don’t know the scale of rework required. TAG will be reviewing our new version, along with the other ¾ they didn’t look at originally.

         - Not possible to predict level / depth of TAG feedback and concomitant rework.

         - However, no major upsets expected. Some items may require immediate revisions, others might be issues for future.

   - Impact ratings: to come

     - Tzviya: 2 weeks for now

     - Everyone: there is time so this is not an urgent task.

     - This will likely be a different document so not on same critical path.

   - AI additional material - new section? Supplement

     - Tim: recap many discussions on what the role of AI is in the guidelines, in terms of what gets published and beyond.

     - Tzviya: currently our guidelines have little AI content. But if we don’t write it, someone else will.

       - “AI Vegan” = Rose, “AI Omni/Carnivore” = Mike

       - See HTML extension EME historic example of hazy scope causing issues.

     - Where should it live: Stand-alone document, or a section of WSG itself? There is a lot of cross-over and potential duplication.

     - Draft document exists, but needs substantial revision and additions.

       - Also requires substantial justification, references, citations.

     - Alex: Should this be tackled in this Charter period, or the next?

       - Dependencies around publish timeline, charter timeline etc

     - Tzviya: Corporate and Open source involvement: we shouldn’t work on this without input from AI players

     - Rose: reminder that the AI section must meet the quality standard; it would be preferable to put out solid work [due to reputational risk]

       - Team may require further learning & expert opinions to cover blindspots.

     - Tzviya: this may our audiences priority but it is not this groups priority; lots of homework to do;

     - Siddhesh: consider at least publishing the “health warning” if not the detail, as there is great appetite for the content.

     - Mike: concerns on timeline; also consider the rate of change in the AI space, it is its own challenge to keep current.

     - Tzviya: agree with Mike & SId: stay focused. Standards-writing isn’t activism.

       - Read State of the [Fossil-free Internet](https://fossilfree.greenweb.org/2026/):

       - [Counting own goals: High-level assessment of the economic relationship between the ICT and the Oil and Gas sectors and its environmental implications](https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.26539) - first academic article I’ve seen about enabled emissions

     - Alex: our guidelines are fairly open - what and why, rather than being overly prescriptive. So new material / changes in AI landscape….

     -

4. **Community + News**

   - Green IO NY - May 13 and 14

   - SCI for Web with Chris Adams

     - SCI: Software Carbon Intensity

     - What: using an LLM approach to spec authoring.

       - Questions are sent out by email with a single topic with targeting questions. Responses collated into a gDoc.

       - Group review of synthesised report.

       - Areas: Scope, personas, carbon intensity, etc.

       - GSF created Harmony AI which does the magic (see deck).

     - Who’s involved

       - Accenture, Google, Green Web Foundation, electricity maps, climateAction.tech, Schneider Electric, University of Madrid, another university, an energy think tank in Houston, and more.

     - Began in April

     - What was shared to the people joining

       - [SCI-Web Kick-Off](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16IxbBfKZN3zd_297IPFhDspoPO2MttwplVfM3sUbvPM/edit?slide=id.g38703c5381e_0_117#slide=id.g38703c5381e_0_117)

     - Running til …mid q3 probs

     - PR with changes [not to be merged, obvs]

     - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/335>

     - Branch of spec, with info about the process and so on

       - <https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/sustainableweb-wsg/tree/ca-sci-web-snapshot-2026-05-07/sci-web>

       - Also includes plans, rationale, including pros/cons of using an LLM-mediated approach.

       - Some inconsistencies as this is WiP.

     - Interesting discussions emerging:

       - The Impact of The Development Process: tooling and process has a footprint.

       - Network Transfer:

     - Tzviya: what feedback are you looking for specifically?

       - None specifically required, however general review is welcome.

         - E.g., did it miss a persona, or scope consideration.

         - Message Chris, or PR in Git.

         - Pay attention to the spec snapshots. E.g. https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/sustainableweb-wsg/blob/ca-sci-web-snapshot-2026-05-07/sci-web/spec-snapshot.md

- Alex: interesting questions around scope of SCI for web.

  - kWh / bandwidth is the trad model. We are moving beyond this to look at many other variables.

  - Less stringent data requirements reflecting difficulty of getting perfect data. Trade-off flexibility and accuracy.

  - Lower barrier to entry by lowering data requirements.

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
